articles/active-directory/active-directory-v2-devquickstarts-univ.md, before:

<properties
    pageTitle="Azure AD v2.0 Windows Universal App | Microsoft Azure"
    description="How to build an Windows Universal app that signs users in with both personal Microsoft Account and work or school accounts."
    services="active-directory"
    documentationCenter=""
    authors="dstrockis"
    manager="mbaldwin"
    editor=""/>

<tags
    ms.service="active-directory"
    ms.workload="identity"
    ms.topic="article"
    ms.tgt_pltfrm="mobile-windows-store"
    ms.devlang="dotnet"
    ms.date="02/20/2016"
    ms.author="dastrock"/>

  
# <a name="add-signin-to-a-windows-universal-app-using-the-v20-endpoint"></a>Add sign-in to a Windows Universal app using the v2.0 endpoint
  The quick-start tutorial for Windows Universal apps isn't quite ready... Check back soon & look for updates from @AzureAD on Twitter.

> [AZURE.NOTE]
    Not all Azure Active Directory scenarios & features are supported by the v2.0 endpoint.  To determine if you should use the v2.0 endpoint, read about [v2.0 limitations](active-directory-v2-limitations.md).
    
    ## Get security updates for our products

We encourage you to get notifications of when security incidents occur by visiting [this page](https://technet.microsoft.com/security/dd252948) and subscribing to Security Advisory Alerts.


<!--HONumber=Oct16_HO2-->

Commit message:

Convert azure content to ops docs

articles/active-directory/active-directory-v2-devquickstarts-univ.md, after:

---
title: Azure AD v2.0 Windows Universal App | Microsoft Docs
description: How to build an Windows Universal app that signs users in with both personal Microsoft Account and work or school accounts.
services: active-directory
documentationcenter: ''
author: dstrockis
manager: mbaldwin
editor: ''

ms.service: active-directory
ms.workload: identity
ms.topic: article
ms.tgt_pltfrm: mobile-windows-store
ms.devlang: dotnet
ms.date: 02/20/2016
ms.author: dastrock

---
# <a name="add-signin-to-a-windows-universal-app-using-the-v20-endpoint"></a>Add sign-in to a Windows Universal app using the v2.0 endpoint
  The quick-start tutorial for Windows Universal apps isn't quite ready... Check back soon & look for updates from @AzureAD on Twitter.

> [!NOTE]
> Not all Azure Active Directory scenarios & features are supported by the v2.0 endpoint.  To determine if you should use the v2.0 endpoint, read about [v2.0 limitations](active-directory-v2-limitations.md).
> 
> 

    ## Get security updates for our products

We encourage you to get notifications of when security incidents occur by visiting [this page](https://technet.microsoft.com/security/dd252948) and subscribing to Security Advisory Alerts.

<!--HONumber=Oct16_HO2-->
