articles/marketplace-publishing/marketplace-publishing-azure-certification.md, before:

<properties
   pageTitle="Get pre-approved through the Microsoft Azure Certified program | Microsoft Azure"
   description="Learn about the Microsoft Azure Certified partner program and how to get to sell your virtual machine image, solution template, developer service, or data service on the Azure Marketplace"
   services="marketplace-publishing"
   documentationCenter="na"
   authors="HannibalSII"
   manager="hascipio"
   editor=""
   tags=""/>

<tags
   ms.service="marketplace"
   ms.devlang="na"
   ms.topic="article"
   ms.tgt_pltfrm="na"
   ms.workload="na"
   ms.date="07/21/2016"
   ms.author="anishk;hascipio"/>


# <a name="get-pre-approved-via-the-microsoft-azure-certified-program"></a>Get pre-approved via the Microsoft Azure Certified program

This article provides instructions on how to become Microsoft Azure Certified. For a detailed overview of the Microsoft Azure Certified program and its benefits, visit [http://azure.com/certified](http://azure.com/certified).

> [AZURE.NOTE] The Azure certification is applicable only if you are going to create a virtual machine, a solution template, and developer services for the Azure Marketplace. If you are not creating any of these artifacts, please skip this step and move forward to [Microsoft seller account: creation and registration](marketplace-publishing-accounts-creation-registration.md).

## <a name="getting-started"></a>Getting started
1. The first step on the path to getting your application or service certified and onboarded to the Azure Marketplace is to fill out the application form on the [Microsoft Azure Certified](https://azure.microsoft.com/marketplace/partner-program/) webpage.

2. If you meet the basic eligibility criteria, we will ask you to share some more details about your business and the application or service that you want to certify. When we have all the details from you, we will review your application to ensure that it’s a good fit for the Azure Marketplace. If your application is approved, we will start working with you to onboard your solution to the Azure Marketplace.

3. If you are working with a Partner Account Manager or a DX Partner Manager, please ask them to nominate you for the Azure Certified program. Or go to the [Microsoft Azure Certified](http://azure.com/certified) webpage, click **Request Information**, and fill in the application form.

**"Sell-from" countries**

> [AZURE.WARNING] In order to sell your services on the Microsoft Azure Marketplace, your registered entity needs to be from one of the approved “sell-from” countries. This restriction is for payout and taxation reasons. We are actively looking to expand this list of countries in the near future, so stay tuned. For the complete list, see section 1b of the [Azure Marketplace participation policies](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=526833).

## <a name="next-step"></a>Next step
Once you have received pre-approval from the Microsoft Azure Certified program, you can proceed to [Microsoft seller account: creation and registration](marketplace-publishing-accounts-creation-registration.md).

## <a name="see-also"></a>See also
- [Getting started: How to publish an offer to the Azure Marketplace](marketplace-publishing-getting-started.md)



<!--HONumber=Oct16_HO2-->

Commit message:

Convert azure content to ops docs

articles/marketplace-publishing/marketplace-publishing-azure-certification.md, after:

---
title: Get pre-approved through the Microsoft Azure Certified program | Microsoft Docs
description: Learn about the Microsoft Azure Certified partner program and how to get to sell your virtual machine image, solution template, developer service, or data service on the Azure Marketplace
services: marketplace-publishing
documentationcenter: na
author: HannibalSII
manager: hascipio
editor: ''
tags: ''

ms.service: marketplace
ms.devlang: na
ms.topic: article
ms.tgt_pltfrm: na
ms.workload: na
ms.date: 07/21/2016
ms.author: anishk;hascipio

---
# <a name="get-pre-approved-via-the-microsoft-azure-certified-program"></a>Get pre-approved via the Microsoft Azure Certified program
This article provides instructions on how to become Microsoft Azure Certified. For a detailed overview of the Microsoft Azure Certified program and its benefits, visit [http://azure.com/certified](http://azure.com/certified).

> [!NOTE]
> The Azure certification is applicable only if you are going to create a virtual machine, a solution template, and developer services for the Azure Marketplace. If you are not creating any of these artifacts, please skip this step and move forward to [Microsoft seller account: creation and registration](marketplace-publishing-accounts-creation-registration.md).
> 
> 

## <a name="getting-started"></a>Getting started
1. The first step on the path to getting your application or service certified and onboarded to the Azure Marketplace is to fill out the application form on the [Microsoft Azure Certified](https://azure.microsoft.com/marketplace/partner-program/) webpage.
2. If you meet the basic eligibility criteria, we will ask you to share some more details about your business and the application or service that you want to certify. When we have all the details from you, we will review your application to ensure that it’s a good fit for the Azure Marketplace. If your application is approved, we will start working with you to onboard your solution to the Azure Marketplace.
3. If you are working with a Partner Account Manager or a DX Partner Manager, please ask them to nominate you for the Azure Certified program. Or go to the [Microsoft Azure Certified](http://azure.com/certified) webpage, click **Request Information**, and fill in the application form.

**"Sell-from" countries**

> [!WARNING]
> In order to sell your services on the Microsoft Azure Marketplace, your registered entity needs to be from one of the approved “sell-from” countries. This restriction is for payout and taxation reasons. We are actively looking to expand this list of countries in the near future, so stay tuned. For the complete list, see section 1b of the [Azure Marketplace participation policies](http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=526833).
> 
> 

## <a name="next-step"></a>Next step
Once you have received pre-approval from the Microsoft Azure Certified program, you can proceed to [Microsoft seller account: creation and registration](marketplace-publishing-accounts-creation-registration.md).

## <a name="see-also"></a>See also
* [Getting started: How to publish an offer to the Azure Marketplace](marketplace-publishing-getting-started.md)

<!--HONumber=Oct16_HO2-->
